En route to show IPO SPF Neighbor noticed the neighbor relationship has changed.
To use the loop back address of quadruple 1 so let's enable 0 Escape From router 3 to ensure full connectivity
between all subnets
show IP interface brief will allow me to see the interfaces configured on this Rada and you can see
forced Ethan at 0 and the 2 0 interfaces Serial 1 slash 0 and 0 1 slash 1 have IP addresses enabled
on them and the interfaces are up let's configure a loop back for the strata interface loop back 0 IP
address they just make it quadruple 3 topping the command show IP protocols will allow me to see that
there are no protocols enabled in Misrata once again show IP protocols displays no output has no routing
protocols I enabled going into global config mode Rada OSP at and I could use process IP 3 in this case
I'm using different process ideas just to prove the point that the process ideas are local to the Rada
and do not have to be the same across all routers in the real world it would make more sense to use
the same process no on all of your orders if possible in other words standardize on a process idea in
this case I could top the command network send out wonder 3.0 and put in the wildcard MOS as follows.
In other words use the exact inverse of the network mosque and as you can see here a neighbor relationship
was established between Route 3 and Rod a team I could use the command to show IP OSP if neighbors to
see that that neighbor relationship has established I could then enable o SPF on Serial 1 Select one
so Network 10 dot one dot 5.0 with the wildcard mosque putting it into area 0 and now neighbor relationship
has been established with a root one so do show IPO SPF neighbors shows me that on Route 3 I have two
neighbor relationships withdraw to 1 and withdraw a team talking to come on Network 10 1 4 0 will enable
0 SPF on the Fost Ethan at 0 0 interface.
So now typing the command to show IP 0 SPF interface allows me to see that always faith is enabled on
the first Ethan at 0 0 interface the Serial 1 slash one interface 0 once latch 0 interface but not on
the loop back interface even though 0 SPF is not enabled in the loop back interface the Rada I.D. is
set to the loop back IP address.
Lastly I should do this.
Network or Drupal 3 exact match area 0.
Not topping the command to show IPO SPF.
Interface
allows me to see that always paper is enabled on the loop back.
Interface getting back to privilege mode I can top that Come on show IP 0 SPF neighbor to see my neighbors
and once again you can see Rado 1 and at 2 but I could also do this command show IP SPF neighbor and
specify individual neighbor.
And this allows me to see more detailed information about the neighbor.
You can see that the neighbor with Roorda i.e. quadruple 1 an interface address 10 1 5 1 is connected
by a serial 1 slash 1 and the neighbor relationship is full.
In other words we are exchanging updates with one another background Rado one you can see that the neighbor
relationship with Robert a 3 came up.
Right out of that and I can topic and on show IP rot and I can see that I've learned about network quadruple
to network quadruple three as well as network 10 1 3 0 and Network 10 1 4 0.
Notice this gap means that we're doing load balancing because the costs are the same.
In other words from to one's point of TV to get to Network 10 1 3 0.
We could either use this link which is one hundred twenty eight gigabits per second or we could use
this link which is always under into any extra bits per second.
So they are two possible paths to use to get to this network.
Oh SPF supports equal cost load balancing topping the cam on show IP 0 SPF database allows me to view
the 0 SPF topology database and as you can see here for SPF Rada with Idi quadruple 1 process I.D. 1
area 0.
We have learned about three rowdies ourselves.
Robert 2 and Robert at 3.
The number of links on Rado 1 is set to 6.
The reason for that is a serial link as a link count of two a one has two serial links 0 1 6 0 and 0
1 slash 1.
In other words two plus two equals four root a one also has a loop back interface plus one equals five.
And it has a fast ethernet 00 interface plus one equals six.
I can see that in more detail by topping the Come on show IPO SPF database.
And notice this option Rata and then specifying the Rada I.D. in this case ourselves.
And you can see once again that in area 0 Rada with Rada Ida quadruple 1 has a stub network which is
a looped back interface with an IP address of quadruple 1 and Moscow slash that 80 as well as a point
to point link connected to neighbouring router quadruple 3 with local IP address 10 1 5 1.
In other words this serial point to point link
as well as stub Network 10 1 5 0 slash 24.
In other words the network on the serial link it is also connected to RADA quadruple 2 with local IP
address 10 1 2 1.
In other words this interface and on that interface we have network 10 1 2 0.
We are also connected to network 10 1 1 0 to count those network we have 1 2 3 4
5 6 networks connected to Rado 1 notice on serial links there are two entries the entry connected to
the neighboring router on the point the point link as well as the actual subnet.
On that point to point link to once again show IP always a database shows me that for local Rada we
have 6 as the linked count because there are two entries for the serial links.
This is the top a logical database which is shared by all Rodders so unrelated to show IP or SPF database
will allow me to see that that Rada has the same information as Rada 1.
It's the same database on router 3 show IP 0 SPF database will allow me to see the exact same database
link state routing protocols share the same database within the network or area.
These 3 rod is on the same area so all three of them share the exact same database backend Rado one
I could top the command debug IP OSP if events to see event information on router 1.